---
layout:     post
title:      "FluentAssertion is kil"
date:       2025-01-15 00:33:00 +0200
categories: dotnet
---

> Gentle reminder that you can reduce your dependence on 3rd party packages by deleting all tests! 

Welp everyone, code brown - another widely used open source lib goes into complete shїtshow with rug pulling their users into some custom license.

Is this so bad? I don't think so. Maybe people even kind of overreacting. 
There's still strong aroma of crap thrown at developers' faces, though. 

Here’s what changed:
- Apache license was changed to Xceed custom non-commercial one
- Commercial use of this lib is $130 per seat subscription (Rider is $150/year for comparison)

What do? If you're non commercial open-source developer - maybe nothing. But that leaves us with question “Why would I use a phone, that works only at home”

However, there's several ways to handle this:

1. Use newest version with Apache licensing - V7. Not like you’re gonna ship it to the end user. + developers are trying to reduce the flame saying that critical updates still would be released for V7.
    For that you may consider setting a limit to a package version in your .csproj:
    ```xml
    <PackageReference Include="FluentAssertions" Version="[7.0.0]" />
    ```
    Or even forking it in case Xceed gets really nasty and do something with V7 distribution 
    
2. Dump another 3rd party dependency and use native asserion API of your test suite framework 
3. Look for competitors, for example on Reddit there’s many mentions of [**Shouldly**](https://github.com/shouldly/shouldly)

Stay safe folks, thanks for reading